CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribute to Echidna

This is the contribution reference of Echidna. Great to have you here. Here are a few ways you can help make this project better!

## Talk with us

Talk with us directly on IRC. Here are some [detailed instructions to connect](http://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC). The server is `irc.w3.org` and the corresponding channel is `#pub`.

Discuss the publication workflow and related tools [on the mailing list](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/spec-prod/).

## Report a bug or suggest a feature idea

Start by looking through the [existing bugs](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues) to see if this was already discussed earlier. You might even find your solution there.

If you do not find anything, you can help report bugs by [filing them here](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues/new). Please use the following template when doing so:

```markdown
##### Issue Type

Can you help us out in labelling this by telling us what kind of ticket this this? You can say "Bug Report", "Feature Idea" or "Documentation Report".

##### Summary

Please summarize your request in this space. You will earn bonus points for being succinct, but please add enough detail so we can understand the request. Thanks!

##### Steps To Reproduce

If this is a bug ticket, please enter the steps you use to reproduce the problem in the space below. If this is a feature request, please enter the steps you would use to use the feature. If an example document is useful, please include its URL.

##### Expected Results

Please enter your expected results in this space. When running the steps supplied above in the previous section, what did you expect to happen? If showing example output, please surround it with 3 backticks before and after so that it's rendered correctly.

##### Actual Results

Please enter your actual results in this space. When running the steps supplied above, what actually happened? If showing example output, please surround it with 3 backticks before and after so that it's rendered correctly.
```

## Contribute to the code

First of all, thank you very much for offering your help. This is much appreciated.

Before adding a new feature or submitting a bugfix, please refer to the [existing issues](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues) to check if it was already discussed before. If it wasn't, please [create a new one](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues/new) so that we can discuss together about it before you start coding. It would be frustrating for everyone if we had to refuse your contribution because we did not share the same opinion!

To make sure we are on the same page, you should refer to our [coding style guide](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki/Coding-style-guide) and [coding practices guide](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki/Coding-practices-guide) before coding.

Finally, we value testing a lot. Before committing anything, make sure the test suite still passes by running `npm test` to make sure there is no regression. If you submit a bugfix, try to write tests to reproduce this bug to ensure the same bug will not come up again in the future. And if you submit a new feature, provide tests to ensure the correct behavior of the nominal and edge cases.

# Documentation

Documentation can be found on [the wiki](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki). You can help us improving it by adding missing pieces, clarifying unclear parts, or asking us to do that.

Commit message:

Mention the web IRC client in the CONTRIBUTING file

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribute to Echidna

This is the contribution reference of Echidna. Great to have you here. Here are a few ways you can help make this project better!

## Talk with us

Talk with us directly on IRC. Here are some [detailed instructions to connect](http://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC). The server is `irc.w3.org` and the corresponding channel is `#pub`. If you do not have an IRC client on hand, you can log into the [W3C Public IRC Web Client](http://irc.w3.org/).

Discuss the publication workflow and related tools [on the mailing list](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/spec-prod/).

## Report a bug or suggest a feature idea

Start by looking through the [existing bugs](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues) to see if this was already discussed earlier. You might even find your solution there.

If you do not find anything, you can help report bugs by [filing them here](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues/new). Please use the following template when doing so:

```markdown
##### Issue Type

Can you help us out in labelling this by telling us what kind of ticket this this? You can say "Bug Report", "Feature Idea" or "Documentation Report".

##### Summary

Please summarize your request in this space. You will earn bonus points for being succinct, but please add enough detail so we can understand the request. Thanks!

##### Steps To Reproduce

If this is a bug ticket, please enter the steps you use to reproduce the problem in the space below. If this is a feature request, please enter the steps you would use to use the feature. If an example document is useful, please include its URL.

##### Expected Results

Please enter your expected results in this space. When running the steps supplied above in the previous section, what did you expect to happen? If showing example output, please surround it with 3 backticks before and after so that it's rendered correctly.

##### Actual Results

Please enter your actual results in this space. When running the steps supplied above, what actually happened? If showing example output, please surround it with 3 backticks before and after so that it's rendered correctly.
```

## Contribute to the code

First of all, thank you very much for offering your help. This is much appreciated.

Before adding a new feature or submitting a bugfix, please refer to the [existing issues](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues) to check if it was already discussed before. If it wasn't, please [create a new one](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/issues/new) so that we can discuss together about it before you start coding. It would be frustrating for everyone if we had to refuse your contribution because we did not share the same opinion!

To make sure we are on the same page, you should refer to our [coding style guide](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki/Coding-style-guide) and [coding practices guide](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki/Coding-practices-guide) before coding.

Finally, we value testing a lot. Before committing anything, make sure the test suite still passes by running `npm test` to make sure there is no regression. If you submit a bugfix, try to write tests to reproduce this bug to ensure the same bug will not come up again in the future. And if you submit a new feature, provide tests to ensure the correct behavior of the nominal and edge cases.

# Documentation

Documentation can be found on [the wiki](https://github.com/w3c/echidna/wiki). You can help us improving it by adding missing pieces, clarifying unclear parts, or asking us to do that.
